Hi everybody, welcome back to the Data Science Hangout.
I'm Rachel Dempsey and I lead Customer Marketing here at Posit.
I've actually learned that some people are hearing about Posit through the Hangouts,
so I've started just adding this here in the beginning.
If Posit is new to you, we're the open source data science company building tools for the
individual, team, and enterprise, and I'm so happy to have you joining us here today.
The Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across different
industries, chat about data science leadership, and connect with others who are facing similar
things as you.
So we get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place, unless it's a holiday
or something.
But if you're watching the recording and want to join us in the future, if you're watching
on YouTube, there's details to add it to your calendar below if you want to join live.
Just make sure it adds it for 12 Eastern Time so you can join live.
I'm learning from the Hangout survey, which I'll share with everybody in the chat here,
that people really enjoy connecting with other attendees in the chat.
So if you are interested in connecting with others and want to share your LinkedIn or
whatever, I encourage you to say hello there and maybe briefly introduce yourself, your
role, where you're based, something you do for fun, too.
That way you all can meet each other as well there in the chat.
We're all dedicated to keeping this a friendly and welcoming space for everyone and love
to hear from you no matter your years of experience, titles, industry, or languages that you work
in.
It's totally okay if you just want to listen in here, but there's also three ways you can
jump in and ask questions today or provide your own perspective.
So you can raise your hand on Zoom, and if you need a refresher on how to do that, in
the Zoom bar below, there will be a, like, reactions button.
If you click that, you can raise your hand.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat, and if it's something you want me to read out
loud instead, just put a little asterisk or star next to it.
Maybe you're in a coffee shop or something.
And then we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously, and I'm sure
our co-hosts here will share that in the chat here in just a second.
I did just mention, I'll add this real quickly, I love getting to hear from all of you and
learn from all of you and really value your feedback about how we can best support this
awesome community.
So after the Hangout today, if you would be open to sharing your feedback, I would love
to hear from you.
I just shared the quick Google form in the chat now, but I'll share it again at the end
too.
With that, thank you so much.
I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host today, Rafi Kurlancic, Principal Product Specialist
at Databricks, where he specializes in data science, machine learning, and the developer
experience.
And so, Rafi, I'd love to kick it off with having you introduce yourself to and sharing
a little bit about your role, but also something you like to do outside of work too.
Sure.
So, thank you, Rachel, thank you Posit for having me.
Thank you everyone for the opportunity to meet you and have a conversation with you
all.
Looking forward to hearing your questions and having a nice discussion.
So a little bit about myself, I actually did not go to school for computer science or anything
like that.
I went to school for nursing.
I graduated with a BSN in nursing from Adelphi University on Long Island, and then I promptly
wound up not going into nursing and trading commodities, oil and gas futures for seven
years.
So, I would have kept doing that, but what happened was essentially around 2013, algorithmic
trading really kind of started taking over, and it was very hard for me to make any money.
So after looking into maybe getting a job at a firm or something like that, I discovered
that all the job postings were talking about R and Python and random forest and all these
different algorithms, and I had no idea what that was.
So I went and I took the Johns Hopkins data science specialization from Coursera.
And that was where I learned how to program in R, it's the first language that I learned
how to write and encode in, unless you count HTML.
And then from there, I realized that data science really is universal, like it applies
to every industry, every sector of the economy.
So then I went to, I wound up getting a job in the Philadelphia area at a hospital system
doing data analysis, you know, on sort of problems like estimated length of stay for
an inpatient, somebody who goes to the hospital, how long should they be staying in the hospital
and other problems like, how can we predict who in the outpatient population is going
to be most likely to be readmitted to the hospital.
So I kind of worked on some data science problems there.
And then I wound up transitioning into field engineering or technical sales, whatever you,
you know, there's different ways of saying the same thing, sales engineering.
I joined IBM in 2016, and I worked there for two and a half years.
I learned all about just the world of technology beyond, you know, limited sort of applications
in healthcare and learned a lot about enterprise sales and all that kind of stuff.
And then from there, I went to Databricks in 2019.
I went to Databricks because I always really appreciated open source technology.
And Databricks is the founders of, you know, several different, very popular open source
technologies.
And I've been at Databricks for five years.
What I do here now is still kind of in field engineering.
So I work with salespeople to help customers understand whether Databricks is a good fit
for them and help them adopt the technology.
But my particular role now as a product specialist is sort of like a liaison between R&D and
field engineering.
So I spent some of my time talking with product managers and engineers about the stuff that
they're building, understanding it, getting them feedback from customers, and then also
taking the things that they're building, sorry, and then sharing that with the field, then
also taking all the feedback from the field and bringing it to the product engineering
team.
So that's my journey, my professional journey.
And as far as things I like to do outside of that, this morning, I planted a whole bunch
of vegetables that I started from seed in my backyard and some raised beds that I have.
So it was a really, really nice way to start the morning in May.
That's awesome.
Well, thank you so much, Rafi, for the introduction to and sharing a little bit about your journey
into the world of data.
I was so happy to see on your LinkedIn when you mentioned it's been a highlight of your
career to work with Posit and the team at Databricks to bring our companies closer together.
And so I was just curious to ask you, what is it about this relationship that's so important
to you?
Oh, for sure.
I'm so glad you asked that.
I tried to answer that last year at Posit Conf, and I think I did an okay job.
Maybe I'll do a better job this time.
So going back to that realization that I had when I first started learning R and more about
data science, I really do believe in general that science is a very, very solid path for
humanity to make progress with the problems that we have, make our lives better, to understand
the world more.
And open source technology is so great for that because it democratizes it and it makes
it more accessible to more people.
So the more humans, the more brains that we can have kind of working on these problems
and the technologies are more accessible, I think that that's fantastic.
So I very much see R and RStudio and Posit as very much in that, like for that.
And then when I joined Databricks, I learned that the founders initially, when they invented
Spark, which is the main technology that Databricks kind of got started with, it's kind of a long
way from there.
But when they invented it, they wanted to give it away.
They did make it open source, but they were like going to these different companies and
they were trying to just say, hey, use this awesome technology.
And the companies kind of pushed them back and were like, hey, well, there's no nice
science project you have here, but there's no enterprise support, there's no adoption
of this, there's too much risk.
So they decided, okay, well, we'll make a company and we'll build a commercial offering
on top of it.
But the spirit of that was definitely, we want to democratize the power of big data
and these technologies so that people can work on really, really difficult problems
and not be limited by the amount of data that they can process.
So I think that those kind of, the two companies I think actually work really well together
because they both share that same fundamental view of the world, which is that technology
can facilitate the cultivation of knowledge and yeah, so I really, really, I think there's
a lot there.
I love that.
The shirt that I chose today says the future is open.
Let me see, here it is over here.
Future is open.
And this is from our Data and AI Summit a couple of years ago.
And I think that there's a lot of, there's just a lot of good that comes from open source
technology.
I love that.
Thank you, Rafi.
So I get to ask you questions while we wait for questions to come in from everybody here.
But if you join after I mentioned it, you can ask questions right in the Zoom chat here.
You can use the Slido link that we'll share where you can ask anonymously, but also just
feel free to raise your hand here on Zoom and we'll be on the lookout to see your hands
raised.
But I appreciate you also explaining a little bit about what it means to be a principal
product specialist.
And it sounds like there's a lot of different things that go into that.
You mentioned R&D, field engineering.
How do you prioritize what you work on in that role?
That's also a very good question.
I think that there's company goals.
So Databricks has certain products that we as a company want to make successful.
So there's always, there's always, that's always a useful way to prioritize your work.
I think what I try to do is to find areas that people are not paying a lot of attention
to that do need support and then go work on that.
So for example, Gen AI is amazing, super interesting and magical technology.
Everybody's paying attention to that.
Like there's plenty of people with very smart people working on all of that.
For people who are maybe not spending as much time is something like, how do you use
Databricks with an IDE or something like that?
There's been a lot more effort put into that over the past couple of years, and I've been
working on that for the past couple of years.
But just by way of example, things that may get overlooked, I think that those are kind
of the areas that I try to focus in on a little bit more.
Thank you.
So in quite a few Hangouts, we've talked a bit around like data stewardship and data
governance and what those words mean.
And so we actually have a roundtable conversation with the community next week on data stewardship
at the individual level.
And I was just wondering to hear from you, like, how do you distinguish between data
stewardship and data governance or what, or how would you explain data governance?
Okay.
Let me just think for a second.
And I'll share that event in the chat here, too, if anybody wants to join this conversation
next week, too.
I mean, my initial thought is, I think governance is more of a security kind of a thing, ensuring
that people have, the right people have access to the right data.
And it's for a few different reasons.
It could be, it's a risk to the company to let certain data come out.
I mean, that's like financial data, it could be like that.
But also it could be that there's compliance risks, and that would be things like personally
identifiable information.
So governance is like ensuring that you don't leak any of that and that you're fully compliant
with, and you're avoiding risks, I would say.
Stewardship to me, I actually don't have like a great definition for that, but what it sounds
like to me is something more on the individual level.
So like if I'm tasked with a project, right, like I have a certain use case that I've been
asked to build out.
And usually in my experience with the way this starts is like, okay, here's some tables
in the data lake or the data warehouse or whatever, this is where you can go find the
data and like you get started with that.
Inevitably, you're going to wind up creating some sort of derivative datasets from there.
And I think being a good, some of the question becomes like, are you going to be a good steward
of that data or not?
So what does it mean to be a good steward of that data?
So to me, that would mean, are you clearly documenting everything associated with that?
Are you documenting the code that you wrote to transform it into the derived datasets?
Are you documenting the datasets themselves?
Databricks has pretty good support for these kinds of things, but if nothing else, like
make a page in Confluence or a Google doc or a Word doc, whatever it is, where you actually
describe like, okay, this derivative table came from these other tables.
This is what these columns mean.
And it's somewhere that people can actually find it and understand it.
That to me would be data stewardship.
And obviously being a poor data steward would be like not commenting your code, not commenting
any of your tables and having hard to read obscure column names.
And then when somebody finds your data, it could be the most valuable data in the world
for your organization, but it's just like, who's going to know what that means?
So I think that's like the distinction between governance, which is more risk and security
oriented and stewardship, which is more maybe closer to like data quality or something like
that.
Thank you.
I'm seeing a few questions coming in here on Slido, so I'll make sure I'll jump over
to one of those.
And I probably should have asked something about this in the beginning, but somebody
asked, how would I describe what Databricks is to my non-technical manager?
Oh, that is a good question.
Yeah, there's a few levels of answering that question.
I would say that Databricks offers software to let you analyze your data at whatever scale
you want, data, big or small, and it does it in the cloud, so it makes it easy to use.
Or maybe you, maybe you could say it does it through your web browser, makes it easy
to use.
I could, you know, I could go simpler than that, or I could go, obviously, like I could
talk to you like a solutions architect.
No, I think that's great.
If people have follow-up questions on that, I'm sure they'll jump in too.
But Jim, I see you had a question in the chat.
Do you want to jump in here?
Well, just, yeah, thank you for joining, Rafi.
I don't want to get too awful technical, but adding another layer to the stack, adding
Databricks means, for some of us, we go on a journey of maybe trying to figure out best
practices or, you know, knowledge discovery.
Could you comment a little bit?
You mentioned open source, which to me, in some ways, also means using tools like Arrow.
And could you comment on how we learn about using these tools and exploit them in the
best possible way for like a production deployment?
Okay, so I think there's two different things there.
There's learning about them.
So let's say the three main open source technologies from Databricks today are Apache
Spark, Delta Lake, and MLflow.
Apache Spark is an engine.
It's a computing engine.
It's a big data computing engine.
MLflow is a storage format slash table format.
And MLflow is a framework for managing machine learning models throughout their entire
lifecycle.
So if you want to learn about these, all three of them have their own open source, like
websites for the open source project.
And there's tutorials there.
There's instructions on how to download it anywhere, install it on whatever computer, your
And you can totally do the hello world examples and maybe even go beyond that and do a few
levels beyond that.
And of course, now there's like tons of videos on the Internet to explain all these things.
But if you want to go to production, I think that that becomes a different story.
Because then when there's production, when you want to have an application or some use
of production, you have to start thinking about the risk of it failing.
If it's something that's on your laptop that's personal, probably not that much risk of it
failing.
If it's a business case that's been decided on the business, we're going to invest, we're
going to put all of our people on this and we're going to build this out.
That's a lot of risk immediately.
So for that, you have to start thinking about more DevOps and like engineering type concepts
How do I ensure that this is actually going to scale and that it's reliable?
Whatever system that we're installing all this software onto and we're actually managing
it.
You have to think of who is going to manage the infrastructure that this is running on.
And you also have to think about like how are we, let's say we get this up and running
and inevitably we'll have to make some sort of changes to it.
How are we going to make sure that when we make changes that we don't break anything?
These are all much bigger problems.
How do we make it secure?
These are all the things that I've seen over the past, all the years that I've been in
field engineering.
There's this tension between DIY because you look at open source, you're like, oh, it's
cheaper if we just do it ourselves.
Versus a managed service where the managed service takes care of a lot of those things
for you.
The managed service will say, I guarantee that the infrastructure will be reliable.
I guarantee that it will be secure.
So you don't have to spend any money on that.
You just pay me some and I'll make sure that the environment is totally secure and
reliable.
So I think that that's kind of the, that's like the tradeoff that you have to think about
when you think about I have this interesting technology, this useful technology.
How do I get this into production?
You have to think about the tradeoff between spending money on people to manage it at your
company or paying for a managed service.
I think in many cases, depending upon what the managed service is, it could be worth
it or it could be worth it to DIY.
But that's certainly, I hear a lot of customers like lean, customers that lean towards the
managed service approach.
I find that they're not always thinking about the total cost of ownership and like what
the full-time employees that have to maintain the infrastructure are pretty expensive.
So that's kind of my perspective on it.
Working with customers at a managed service company for five years.
Does that answer your question?
Does that help?
Yes, it does.
Thank you.
I saw Fariza asked in the chat, and there's a star next to it, so I'll read it.
But it's, what are good resources for learning to use Posit with Databricks together?
I'm finding a lot for Python, but having a hard time with R resources.
I know Isabella just shared some in the chat, but I'll have you weigh in as well, Rafi.
Yeah.
So I'm sure Isabella just shared some of the documentation and examples and blogs and stuff
that we've put out in the past year.
Aside from that, I think that there will be a training that Edgar is running this summer
at the Posit Conf.
I think Edgar's on.
Edgar, do you want to tell us a little bit about that workshop too?
Yeah, I'd be happy to.
Can you hear me okay?
Yes, sounds great.
I'm actually really excited about it.
This is the first time we're going to be doing this class.
And I've done other classes before, especially at Posit Conf.
And we're going to be focusing on how to essentially connect and use and interact with
Databricks through R, where we'll be covering ODBC connections for database connections
to the warehouse, accessing the Unity catalog, as well as Spark, and using it through
Spark AR, how to do all that setup.
Also very excited that our plan at this point is to make available to all the students
their own workbench.
That's like the professional version of RStudio.
That has the special Databricks pane that we just added recently.
So you'll get to experience that as well.
So yeah, very much looking forward to it.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Now, since we're on the topic of conferences, it might be good to chat a little bit about
the Databricks Data and AI Summit, if you want to share anything about that, Rafi.
Oh, yeah.
So Databricks has a conference every year called Data and AI Summit.
The past, I think, four years has been Data and AI Summit.
It's pretty large.
It's usually in San Francisco.
And it's also available online virtually for free.
So you can buy tickets, obviously, like any other conference, and go there.
Or you can tune in virtually and catch, I think, most of the talks and certainly the
keynotes and all that kind of stuff.
I can tell you, as a Databricks employee, that they always save some pretty exciting
announcements for the first day.
Usually for the keynotes.
So if you like what Databricks is doing, or you're interested, and you kind of want to
see what the next big splash that they're going to make is, then that is definitely
the best place to check it out, is the keynotes for Data and AI Summit.
Awesome.
Oh, and this year, it's June 10th to the 13th this year.
Perfect.
Thank you.
I think Isabella shared this earlier, but a bunch of people from our team are going
to be there as well.
And so I know we're planning a few different customer events and just get together.
If anybody is going to that and want to let us know, I just put the link again in the
chat there.
George, I see you had a question around prototyping.
Do you want to jump in next?
Yeah, sure.
So, yeah, in terms of where we hear a lot about the advantages on the production level
with Databricks and integrations with POSIT and R, but I'm wondering for prototyping
purposes, so not really like, you know, not thinking about like keeping code like,
you know, for production levels or maintaining stuff, but more so like for like
sketching or like, you know, really like doing proof of concept building.
What advantages would you say Databricks gives developers that are looking to
create applications in such as like R Shiny or Python apps?
So I think there's two answers there.
I have a lot of two for everything today.
So there's, yeah, there's two things that come to mind.
The first is that if your company manages their data in Databricks, then that's
kind of, you know, your advantage is going to be that that's where you're going to
be able to access it.
But the second thing is, even if your company doesn't have its data in Databricks,
you can use the compute to pull in a lot of different things together.
And the infrastructure and the ease of managing infrastructure is probably some
of the best.
I still think it's definitely the best for a long time.
I still think it's some of the best, if not the best.
The reason I say that is, you know, as someone who's on a laptop, you're limited
by the RAM and the CPU that you have on your laptop.
When you move to the cloud, all of a sudden you have, you know, basically
practically infinite choice of like how much, what configuration you want for
compute.
Databricks makes it very simple to just like click, you know, oh, give me this
instance with a little more RAM, like restart it.
Or if you want a GPU, you just select the GPU and then restart it.
So when you're prototyping, it makes it very simple to get the resources that you
need.
I think that's the biggest thing.
I love, whenever I have to do something significant, I use RStudio.
But if I just need to quickly like explore something or look at something and the
data is in Databricks, then I do open up a Databricks notebook and I'm like up and
running in a few seconds.
So those are kind of my thoughts on that.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
Yeah, you bet.
So I see you had a question in the chat.
Want to jump in next?
Yeah, thanks.
Can you guys hear me?
Yep.
Good.
Nice.
Thanks, Rafi, for coming on.
Yeah, the Databricks stuff is always interesting to me.
I've noticed like, you know, Databricks has kind of pitched a pretty big
enterprise thing.
Have you noticed any interesting collaborations for maybe like Excel users
with teams that are a little bit more data science focused?
So just wondering, like, how do the Excel users on like analytics and BI teams
work with Databricks and collaborate with teams that are more Python R focused?
Yeah, that's fantastic.
The population of users that are in spreadsheets is probably way more than the
population that's writing code in R or Python or SQL all put together for data
science and data analytics.
Probably.
I think that's probably still true.
So today, if you're an Excel user and you want to use Databricks, it's going to
be challenging.
There's probably a way to do it.
I've seen some ways to do it, but none of them are going to be super intuitive
and great.
So for now, what I would say is at a minimum to get the most out of Databricks,
you should know SQL.
The introduction of AI systems, there is an AI system in Databricks now.
It definitely lowers the barrier to entry.
It makes it more accessible because it can help you write SQL or Python or R and
kind of get you started.
But it's still going to be hard if you're an Excel user.
Where I think Databricks is going, though, what's very exciting, actually, is
trying to use large language models to be able to just use English as your
programming language.
That's something that the CEO has talked about.
Ali Ghodsi has talked about this, that English is the new programming language
because if you can load your data into, there's something called a data room in
Databricks.
Now, you basically choose these are the tables that I want to analyze, and then
you can just ask questions.
And behind the scenes, it'll call functions and actually run the aggregations and
run whatever code for you and just give you the results back.
So I think somewhere in between that and something that actually lives in Excel is
where the gap will be bridged.
But directionally, Databricks is always trying to make it more and more
accessible.
And I want to just add that, like, that is totally consistent with the original
vision of having Spark and open source, right?
It's like, make the technology as accessible as possible.
So that includes Excel users, people who don't know how to code, necessarily.
That's awesome.
Thanks for the insight.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I'm very excited about that.
Very, very excited about that direction.
Leo, I see you had a question a little bit earlier about the cost of bringing in a
tool.
Do you want to, not like cost pricing-wise, but do you want to jump in?
Sure.
So my name is Leonardo.
Basically, I would like to just ask a question, like, based on your experience,
like when you bring, like, Databricks inside, like, to a customer, how that
impacts, like, total cost of ownership in terms of bringing people to manage it,
like, the kind of cost that can manage the security of the tool or, like,
consulting service for Databricks so they can manage these resources to you.
Like, how do you see normally, like, these conversations go with customers when
you bring, like, Databricks inside of a new customer?
How do the conversations go or how does the cost, like, actually play out?
I think the conversation, like, is more, like, when you sell it, but, like, in
the long term, how that you see that happening, like, oh, I have already
installed Databricks and do you normally, like, oh, you have a, you need a
consulting service initially or you need some kind of, like, consulting
internal inside of the customer trying to manage these resources and bringing
data sources, like, how that normally works?
Yeah.
It very much depends upon the organization and the skill sets that exist at the
organization.
So if you have, let's see, have, like, I worked in the startups, like, segment at
Databricks for the first three years.
So I would work with companies that were very DIY, very, very engineering savvy
and they were very hard to sell to, to be honest, because they really, they could
do it on their own if they really wanted to and they could stand up everything
and they understood the technology extremely well.
So selling to them was different and it was really making the case that, like,
look, you could do all that or you could use a managed service and offload a lot
of this work and then just focus on, like, the business logic and the actual
things that are going to generate revenue for you.
And those customers are much more sensitive to the actual cost because they
understand the cloud more.
So they understand how the cloud works.
They understand how to limit costs.
And they're much more just vigilant about all of that.
On the other extreme, you have companies that or organizations that know that they
need to do something about data and AI and they really, really want to and they
look at Databricks as the fastest path to do that, but they don't necessarily
have the in-house skills to fully administer it or they don't fully understand
how the cloud works.
And so those are cases where they'll probably need consulting.
They'll probably, if they don't have consulting, they'll probably have their
learning, they'll hit the learning curve of working with the cloud, which is that
you left something on or you chose some huge cluster or huge resource and then
you get a huge bill.
I've seen that happen a lot.
It's not necessarily a Databricks thing.
It's just like you have to learn how to work in the cloud.
Every cloud service has that.
So I think that that's kind of the two extremes.
And I think the differentiating factor is like how much in-house experience do you
have working with the cloud and with these sort of big data and data science
technologies.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yeah, you bet.
I actually, I'll share a blog post, but I wrote a blog post like last January
2023, that was all about how to provide a same like cost control mechanism for
data science teams on Databricks.
I won't go into all the details right now.
There's a feature called cluster policies, which basically lets you constrain the
size or the dollar value of any resources that somebody could create.
So I think it's a nice balance of giving people flexibility, but not unlimited
flexibility such that they could accidentally create something that costs, you
know, $10,000 or whatever.
So I'll share that in the chat.
Perfect.
Thank you all for so many of the questions that are coming in here.
Let me take a quick break from the technical questions.
And I would love to ask you, Rafi, what did you want to be when you were a
little kid?
Oh, wow.
A little kid.
I don't know if I remember when I was a little kid.
I can tell you when I was in high school, I decided that I didn't want to work
in a cubicle.
So, I mean, I work in my office in my house right now.
I stare at a computer a lot.
So I don't know how successful I am with that.
But I do have a dream of starting some sort of agricultural business, small
business.
That I would try to use some of the things that I've learned in technology,
but that would definitely not be the main thing.
Like it would not be a startup, you know.
It would just be like a small business.
That's my way to get outside again.
Not be in a cubicle.
Do you see some of the lessons that you learned from agriculture moving over
into your role now?
Ooh.
No, I think more actually only a little bit.
I think more the other way.
Like I could see interesting ways to apply technology to agriculture that's
not really, I just left agriculture.
You're in for a world of hurt.
Thanks for the heads up.
Yeah, I can see some applications both ways.
So to answer your question, an interesting thing about gardening is that when
you plant something in the ground, it's very small usually.
And it kind of stays small for about two years.
And then the third year in the spring, all of a sudden it explodes in growth.
So I think there's something, there's a lesson there about what's happening is
the plant is putting out roots and putting in structure underneath.
And then it finally has the energy to really expand above the ground.
So I think that there's a lesson there about patience and about getting
foundations in order.
I think that applies to all areas of life, but it also applies to working in
business with long-term projects and things like that.
So you kind of have to wait.
You can't be too impatient.
And then the other way, going from tech to agriculture, I'm going to share this
with everybody here.
So if somebody wants to take this idea and run with it, sure.
Just maybe message me and maybe include me with it.
But the idea that I had is I don't think that there's a data model for farming
that I'm aware of.
What I mean by that is there's like standard data models in like I think in
finance in certain areas and in healthcare in certain areas, but there's not
really one that I'm aware of for agriculture.
So I think it could be interesting to look at what that would be and how you
could use sensors to be part of that.
So like the type of thing that you're growing, consistent real-time data on
the conditions that it's growing in, the geospatial data where it's growing
in, and then actually how the plant is changing over time and growing and
things like that.
I think that there could be – I really want to do that.
I really want to create like a data set of that and then make it open source
so that people could analyze it.
That's my fantasy.
That's awesome.
It sounds like you and – I know James Blair is out of office this week, but
it sounds like you both need to have a chat on plants.
He gave a talk at our work week about career lessons learned from one of his
houseplants, and so it seems like that would be a fun chat.
That's awesome.
We have a lot in common.
So jumping back to some of the anonymous questions that were asked earlier,
there was one that was Databricks seems to implement new features first in
Python or SQL.
Will R continue to be supported or enhanced in notebooks, clusters, or new
Unity catalog features?
That is an excellent question.
I think R is going to be – is going to continue to be supported.
I think the level of support is going to be you'll be able to get data.
You'll be able to use open source, any open source packages to be able to
train models on Databricks and manage them.
I think a lot of that is just going to be with Databricks for the foreseeable
future.
I don't really see that changing.
Where I think things are a little harder, and it's been this way since I
joined Databricks, is things like – things that are a little more cutting
edge.
That's harder because Databricks is innovating.
I'll give specific examples like model serving on Databricks, Delta live
tables.
There's probably another example I could think of, but those are very
innovative spaces.
The engineering resources of Databricks are really focusing on making them
excellent and making them feature complete.
Adding – Python is going to be the number one language for that because
it's the biggest population of users.
That's the biggest population of Databricks users for sure.
I think that Python is going to be where you'll be able to use all of
Databricks no matter what.
R will be more – you can use everything that's in R.
We'll support R and the R ecosystem, but new stuff in Databricks is
probably going to be Python.
Thank you.
The other anonymous question from earlier was, how would you describe how
Databricks and Posit work together?
I think they work very well together.
First of all, for the developer experience, primarily for that I would
say.
Databricks has notebooks and the notebooks are not just a single file
like notebook.
There's actually a workspace file system where you can have arbitrary
files alongside your notebook.
You can get a lot of IDE type experience where you can have relative
paths and things like that.
You can build an R package in Databricks if you wanted to or a Python
package.
There's also a variable explorer and a web terminal.
There's a lot that's there, but it's not the same thing as RStudio or
VS Code.
It's just not the same.
It's not meant to be the same.
I think that if you are an IDE user, Posit Workbench is going to be your
best bet for that.
You can connect to Databricks remotely.
That's a lot of the work that was done in the past year by Edgar and Tom
and their teams that they're associated with at Posit and by some of the
folks at Databricks.
For sure, being able to work in an IDE and access data that's in
Databricks, compute that's in Databricks, have easy sign-in and not have
to worry about your credentials and all that kind of stuff, Posit
Workbench is the best way to do that in the market today, for sure.
On the other end, once you build something that you want to share, so I
think Databricks has some good stuff for that.
If you have a dashboard that you want to build, you can build a dashboard
inside of Databricks and you can share that with people.
But if you want to build a Shiny app or some other data app, that's best
suited for Posit Connect, I think, today.
Where they work really well together in the big picture is you can do
your development inside of Posit Workbench using data that's governed
and the compute that's in Databricks.
Then when you're done and you want to put this app, make it available, you
want to share it with other people, then you can use Posit Connect.
Then on the other side, this Shiny app on Posit Connect is connected to
Databricks and querying data and that's governed and all that kind of
stuff.
That's the two sides of it.
Databricks is kind of in the middle.
Great.
Thank you.
I think this question actually jumps in there as well, but it was any
potential further integrations of Shiny into the Databricks UI or
implementing Cordo?
Say that one more time.
Let me copy it into the chat as well.
But it was any potential further integrations of Shiny into the
Databricks UI or implementing Cordo?
So Shiny, you can run a Shiny app on Databricks, but I would only do
that for lightweight, very lightweight cases.
For anything more significant, I would use Posit Connect.
There may be some lightweight app, like an evolution of that lightweight
app hosting this year.
I would stay tuned for any announcements of data and ask them for that.
I don't know too much about it, but if there would be an announcement, it
would be done there.
Cordo, so I'm going to say that I think that Cordo and R Markdown is
like the best reporting technology in data science.
I have not seen anything as good.
And I really wish we had something like that in Databricks.
You can use Cordo and R Markdown in Databricks, but you don't get the
same rendering and having the file like that.
It's more that a Databricks notebook can be, you can import an R Markdown
or Cordo file as a Databricks notebook, but you don't get the knit
functionality where you have this nice, beautiful render doc.
We need more of that.
That's my thoughts on that.
Cool.
Thank you.
Kanupraya, and apologies if I mispronounce your name, I saw you asked
a question that touched on something you were asked in an interview.
Do you want to jump in?
Yes, absolutely.
So this question, this has been asked to me a lot of times about how do I
validate my data in a project or how do I constantly do integrity checks
or check for integrity issues in my project?
So how should I answer that?
Or what should be my answer to that?
Yep.
Important question.
The, so what I think data validation means to me, as I understand it,
is you can't just necessarily rely on anything that you get coming in
from some source system, right?
You have to check and make sure that the data actually makes sense.
So for example, let's say that you have a date.
This is a classic example.
Let's say you have a date for a sale for some product from your company
and your company started in 2015.
You have a record come in that the date of the product sold is like 1970
or 1990 or something like that, right?
So it's impossible.
It makes no sense.
So validating the data means did you check to make sure that all of this
is actually correct and sane?
That's what I think data validation means.
It's like checking to see if the data is correct.
And the way that you would do this, there's lots of different ways you could
do this, lots of different technologies you could do this,
but I'm going to just talk from a DataWorks point of view,
which is that we advise our customers to basically build out like three sort
of main layers of tables when you're building any kind of data pipeline
or working on any kind of project.
There's this concept of a bronze table.
There's basically bronze, silver, and gold.
So the idea is that bronze is data as you found it, like as it came to you.
So you just capture it as you found it.
You put it in the bronze table.
It could be flawed, whatever.
It doesn't matter.
You want to get it exactly as you found it so you have a copy of the raw data
as it is.
Then you have some sort of code that you write that has logic to run all of the
validation and check to make sure that you basically are, you know,
filtering out rows that have incorrect dates, stuff like that, right?
That's going to, and like dealing with missing values, things like that.
Then you're going to have a set of silver tables that are complete
observations, they're tidy data, and they've already been transformed.
They've already had some sort of logic applied to it.
At the third level, the gold tables are essentially aggregates of the silver
tables.
So if you have single observations, your gold tables are going to be, if you
did a group by and you made some sort of aggregation, that would be your gold
level tables.
So in this way, you have a pretty clear, it's sort of like as you go further in
the pipeline, you know, more and more business logic has been applied to it.
You can always go back to the bronze table and see the source of where it came
from, even if it was flawed.
And then you also can see the logic that transformed it and made it clear.
So that's what I think data validation means, a meaning of data validation.
And that's how we would take care of it is essentially you have to write the
code to clean it up, but you should stage the data in these different tables,
these different layers so that it's very clear each step of the way.
Okay.
And, and if they asked about like consistency in the data, what do they exactly
mean by consistent consistency in the data set?
Like, for example, if I'm getting a data with a frequency of once a month, so
how would I want to make sure that the data is consistent, like the tables, the
structures are similar, what I'm receiving since the beginning?
Yes.
So I think, I think consistency in this context, again, it's hard for me to
answer you like perfectly because I don't know the context in which the person
was asking you the question, but consistency to me in this context would mean
like, let's go back to that date column.
So, you know, if we have like a January 1st, 2015, you can encode that like
three or four different ways.
So it's all the same information.
At the end of the day, it's the same data point.
It's an observation of January 1st, 2015, but somebody, you know, you could
have literally January 1st, 2015, or you could have 0, 1, 0, 1, 2015.
So having it be consistent means it should be in the same, it should be in
the same format.
It should have the same data.
Yeah.
Same structure, same data type, that kind of thing.
And across all of your columns, across all the columns.
Yes.
Thank you.
I see, Donald, you had a question in the chat a few minutes ago.
Do you want to ask that one next?
Yeah.
So I use RStudio through a compute cluster in the web terminal a lot for
Databricks instead of like connecting it and doing it down locally.
And I've noticed that there's not an easy way, it seems, to close the
cluster after X minutes of inactivity.
Like when you end up trying to launch the cluster, you're not allowed to do
that.
But if I do a regular R instance and then I use Databricks Notebook, I'm
able to do that.
I was wondering if there's any avenue forward to make that a feature
available, or if there's a pipeline for that, or maybe I switched to
Posit Workbench and maybe there's a solution there that I'm not aware of.
Yeah.
So just to make sure I got everything, you're using the hosted RStudio in
Databricks?
Yes.
Yeah.
Okay.
So just for people who may not know on the call, Databricks does offer the
ability to install RStudio on the driver node or on an instance that you
launch on Databricks.
So you can open it up in your web browser and you can start working with the
data that's in Databricks.
There's like some requirements though for you to do this, and they make it
hard to work with.
So one of the biggest ones is that Databricks clusters by, or compute by
definition, like the default setting is that it'll turn off if you're not
using it, which is great.
But for this, if you want to launch RStudio, then we force you to disable the
auto termination.
So it will not turn off.
You have to manually turn it off.
So the reason why we do that is IDEs are stateful.
You want to preserve the code that you've written and maybe some data that
you've saved locally.
So we don't want you to walk away from your computer for an hour and then we
shut that down and you lost everything.
So we make it so that you can't auto terminate it.
So the ways to get around this, there's two ways.
The best way is to not use this feature, to be honest with you.
The better way to go is to use RStudio desktop or deposit workbench and then
set up like a remote connection or to use Databricks notebooks inside of
Databricks if you can't do that.
However, if you want to work around, then there's a package out there called
Brickster.
I'm so glad I got a chance to bring this up.
One second.
We're going to write some blogs about this this year.
But this is my colleague, Zach Davies, who's in Australia.
But you can use the REST API, the Databricks REST API, to turn off and
turn on clusters.
So it's very easy to use Brickster, write some R code that basically
identifies your cluster with RStudio on it and shuts it off.
So what I've advised customers in the past is maybe at like 10 p.m.
and you don't think people are going to be using it anymore, then you can
schedule a Databricks job or you can run it locally on your machine if you
want, like a cron job.
And then it'll hit the REST API and it'll shut it off.
And you come back the next morning, you turn it on yourself, and then
you're good to go.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, that's perfect.
Thank you.
And thank you all for the suggestions in the chat as well.
Appreciate it.
Awesome.
And I guess I'll just call this out because I just put it in the chat, too.
But if anybody is using Databricks and Posit together and it's not working as
well as you want it to, I encourage you to schedule time to chat with our
team because we can walk through some of the new things that have come out
with this partnership.
I just want to make sure that everybody is able to take advantage of that.
I'll reassure the link here.
But didn't want to go without saying that.
I know this time is going by so fast right now.
So if you have questions that didn't get answered yet and you want to make
sure they do, if you could just raise your hand on Zoom, then I'll just be
able to see you real quickly.
But a question that I always ask Rafi, and it's one of my favorite questions,
is there a piece of career advice that you have either given to somebody or
received along your career journey that you'd like to share with us?
Yeah, sure.
Okay, the one that comes to mind is that I would recommend feeling free to ask
questions when you don't understand something because you really have nothing
to lose, and I'll explain why.
If you don't understand something and you don't ask a question, then you will
not understand it because you're not going to get the answer.
If you don't understand it and you ask the question and you get the answer,
then fantastic.
Now you understand that.
Now you're that much more knowledgeable and that much more capable.
If you ask the question and people deride you or basically give you any other
response than answering the question, then you know that maybe you're not in
the best situation, and that's also valuable information, and you should
maybe look for a place where you are free to ask questions.
So I think that that's a really powerful thing.
People are often afraid.
So why wouldn't someone ask your question?
Because they're afraid to look stupid or they're afraid to look like they don't
know everything.
The truth is nobody knows everything.
One of the best experiences that I had at Databricks was when I first met some
of the engineers that I admire so much, and I was asking them about some things,
about how Databricks works, and without missing a beat, he said,
I don't know.
And I was just like, that's amazing that that's the culture, that you are just
not afraid to just be like, oh, I don't know.
That's not my area.
I don't know that.
So I think that that's the advice that I would give.
I think it's served me very well, and I think it would serve anyone well.
That's great.
Thank you so much.
Rune, while I see your hands raised, do you want to jump in here next for the
last question?
Oh, you might be muted.
Oh, there you are.
I have a question.
It's just like, I build a clust, and I install a bunch of the package,
and I go to another workspace.
I need to install a very similar package.
What is the best strategy to do so to save time, you know,
for the package installation?
For two different Databricks workspaces?
Yes.
So they're not really going to be able to talk to each other,
so I think you'll just have to install it twice.
Oh, okay.
So is that you have a, how to say, you know,
usually you can be able to have a, how to say,
bunch of package can be able to, how to say,
you install one and you'd be able to mimic to another, you know, cluster.
Is that, have that function or not?
Not across workspaces.
Yeah.
But within a workspace, there are things you can do.
We're also working on a new feature that's going to basically cache
libraries across different clusters.
So that'll be a nicer way to do it.
But across two different workspaces, I think there's no way to do that.
But within one, let me share, I'll share a link real quick.
Yeah.
I think that's very important because if you work on a cluster
and you find that your capacity is not good enough,
you need to go to another different cluster or a different workspace.
And definitely I need to do all this again.
And that's pretty much, you know, time consuming.
And if there is a better way to do so, that's great.
Yeah.
I just put a link in the chat that is like a technical guide.
There's a few steps to it.
So read it carefully.
Okay.
That will help you.
Thank you so much.
And Rafi, do you have time for one more?
Sure.
Okay.
Ahmad, I'm sorry.
I realize I missed your question earlier if you want to jump in.
No worries.
First and foremost, thank you all for hosting, especially you, Rafi.
I feel like I can really relate to you on a lot of levels.
And the reason being is because, you know,
I've been in enterprise sales for a number of years,
and I'm currently enrolled in a data science boot camp,
and I'm trying to career transition as a sales engineer.
My question being is,
what are some tips or resources to really focus on in helping me
throughout my transition to become a sales engineer,
especially since I don't really have any skin in the game?
Yeah.
So there's a book here.
Oh, I'm trying to, there we go.
So there's a book here that is pretty good.
It's kind of like conceptual, you know, and practical at the same time.
It's a good book.
It's worth, if you're getting started, I would get it.
Who's the author?
John Kerr and Aaron Bollig.
So check that out.
And then also I would say, I mean, you've already been in sales.
So like talking to people and being open is like probably the number one
skill for a sales engineer.
And then it's just a matter of getting the technical skills.
Like I would argue in a lot of ways, you already have like the hardest part,
which is feeling comfortable talking to people and, you know,
working through things.
So I would just keep working on your technical skills and you'll do well.
Anything specifically in my technical skills that I'm learning in data
science that I should really be focusing on?
Yes.
Data engineering.
People don't over-index on data science.
Most companies are going to need help with data engineering first still.
So I would take classes on, take classes on Spark,
take classes on like cleaning data and managing data and storage.
Databricks has good classes for this.
So you could check out some of that.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Awesome.
Thank you so much, Rafi, for joining us today and sharing your experience.
And thank you all for the great questions too.
I love to see how lively the chat was today.
And can't wait to go back and be able to reread it after too.
But just in case this was your first Hangout,
I just want to remind everybody these happen every Thursday from 12 to 1
Eastern time.
And the recordings are shared up to the Posit YouTube if you want to go back
and replay this.
But great to get to hang out with you all.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, my pleasure.
Thank you so much for having me.
I hope everybody has a great rest of their day and a great rest of the week.
Thank you.